---
layout: post
title: "I♥Tech: PiHole (Docker/Snyology/Fritzbox)"
categories: I♥Tech
---

# PiHole

## What is PiHole

Pi-hole is a Linux network-level advertisement and Internet tracker blocking application which acts as a DNS sinkhole and optionally a DHCP server, intended for use on a private network. It is designed for low-power embedded devices with network capability, such as the Raspberry Pi, but can be installed on almost any Linux machine.

Pi-hole has the ability to block traditional website advertisements as well as advertisements in unconventional places, such as smart TVs and mobile operating system advertisements.[Source: Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pi-hole)

## Environment

Before you start, you need to be able to configure your DNS. For this environment we assume you have a Fritz!Box running. The second part is the Synology NAS which has Docker support built-in and last not least you have Portainer running on that environment.
You don't really need portainer - for this article this is a pre-requirement. You you have interest on how to setup portainer on you synology, let me know, I will create a new article. 

## Setup

1. Open Portainer
2. Create a new stack
3. Call it pihole (doesn't matter)
4. Paste in the docker-compose file  

```dockerfile
version: '3'
services:
  pihole:
    image: pihole/pihole
    container_name: pihole
    environment:
      - WEB_PORT=8888
      - WEBPASSWORD=YOURSECRETPASSWORD
      - WEB_BIND_ADDR=192.168.23.2
      - TZ=Europe/Berlin
      - DNSMASQ_USER=root
      - DNSMASQ_LISTENING=local
    volumes:
      - /volume1/docker/pihole/dnsmasq.d:/etc/dnsmasq.d
      - /volume1/docker/pihole/pihole:/etc/pihole
    network_mode: host
    restart: always

```  
5. Save and wait for confirmation
6. Check PiHole  
Finally open up your browser and connect to http://IP-ADDR:8888/admin.  
Change the IP-ADDR to the one you specified in your docker compose file. Change the port if you have changed it from 8888 whatever you have set in your docker compose file.
7. Open your Fritzbox  
Home Network/Network Setup/Advanced Settings/IPv4 Settings  
Change the local DNS to the IP address you have set in your docker-compose file
8. Add AddLists
Now you can add more lists by "Addlist" - search the internet or check out this page for a first impression. You really don't need ALL of them!
9. Update PiHole  
You need to update PiHole to download the lists you added by PiHole -> Tools -> Update Gravity -> Update. Otherwise you need to wait for the cron job to handle this, which could take some time.

### Changes

- Change `WEB_PORT=` to 8080 if there is nothing else running on your network on this port.  
I had OpenHab running on 8080 so I needed to change the port to 8888
- Change `WEBPASSWORD=` to your password
- Change `WEB_BIND_ADDR=` to the address of your Synology NAS
- Change `TZ=` to your timezone

### Problems

- DNS  
If you container doesn't start with the error message in pihole-FTL.log
`Fatal error in dnsmasq core: failed to create listening socket for port 53: Address already in use` I would check if your Synology has DNS package running.

[Blocklists RPiList](https://github.com/RPiList/specials/blob/54876178ffa7e4d1224ac81b00bedd0040f65802/Blocklisten.md)
